README, pisg - by me and others (see CREDITS file)
------------------
pisg - Perl IRC Statistics Generator, is a Perl script which takes IRC
logfiles and turns them into nice looking stats, which can be amusing to
show for the users of your channel.

The supported logfile formats is explained in the FORMATS file included with
this distribution in the 'docs' directory.

If you don't have access to any of the clients/bots or you use some other
IRC client/bot which isn't supported, then it's fairly easy to add support
for a new IRC log format. Take a look at the source code or send me an
e-mail with the logfile format.

SETTING UP PISG
---------------
It's quite simple to set up pisg. You have 2 choices:

 * Set settings from commandline (try pisg.pl --help)
 * Configure pisg from the pisg.cfg file (more flexible and configurable)

The most important here is the name of the logfile, the maintainers name,
and then the format of your logfile.

You cannot set up everything on the commandline, only the important things.

The 'pisg.cfg' file controls a lot of things, you should read CONFIG-README.

NOTE: The stats will look best with a logfile which is at least one day long.
Some stats (like smilies, exclamation marks etc) doesn't get counted before
a special amount of time.

Also, pisg supports multiple languages so the texts on the stats page will
be in your own language; look in lang.txt to see the supported languages.
The language can be changed from within the pisg.cfg file.

You're welcome to translate pisg to your own language, it's not very hard,
look in the lang.txt file!

And a last note: there is some graphics in the gfx/ folder which pisg uses,
you should put these in the same directory as your stats file(s).

RUNNING PISG
------------
If you have setup everything inside the config file, then you just need to
run it. If you're on a Linux/Unix system, this should do the work:

    $ ./pisg.pl

Running pisg like this will just use the settings in pisg.cfg.

If you want to specify things on commandline instead of in the config file,
you could do:

    $ ./pisg.pl -ch \#channel -l logfile.log -f mIRC -o index.html
   
The syntax and options is explained when doing:

    $ ./pisg.pl --help

Setting settings on commandline, will override the relevant settings in
pisg.cfg.

CONTACT INFORMATION
-------------------
If you have any problems with setting up or running pisg. Then you can send
a mail to the pisg mailing list:

http://lists.sourceforge.net/mailman/listinfo/pisg-general

Or you can try contacting me personally via e-mail (morten@wtf.dk).

The pisg homepage is located at http://pisg.sourceforge.net/.

If you use pisg, and have a permanent URL for the location of your generated
stats, I'd be delighted if you'd send the URL to me.  Just to see how many
people uses it, and so I can link to it from the pisg homepage.

Have fun :)

 - Morten Brix Pedersen <morten@wtf.dk>
